# syslogApp\
A cisco monitoring tool for PRCO304 at the University of Plymouth\ 
Tutor: Bogdan Ghita\
Trello Link: https://trello.com/b/8FBQfEG1/sam-taylor-syslog-snapper-prco304 \
License: See License.md\
Project Vision:\
Using my year in industry as inspiration, this application is focused on tackling many of the issues my team faced when deploying networking equipment to remote sites with users that had little to no experience. This lack of experience meant, in the event of a remote network outage, our ability to troubleshoot the issue was severely limited. Commonly a field technician from a third-party company would be dispatched to be our “hands and eyes” at the location. As a result, not only did the business incur technician callout fees but also a loss of custom at the affected site which, in retail, can be catastrophic. \ 

I envision a web-based application that will allow the monitoring of networking hardware, regardless of the network size. For those working in a SOHO (small office, home office) or medium sized businesses, employing full time network technicians can place a strain on their budget which normally leads to simply outsourcing the role, incurring a monthly fee. For these situations I can see my application helping these companies bring some level of control over their network back in house, by allowing authorised users to view alerts and make basic configuration adjustments to their devices from the website. Furthermore, I intend to allow my application to silently make backups of device configurations so, in the event of hardware failure or malicious damage, the network can be quickly restored to a functioning state with as little input from the user as possible. \ 

For those companies with dedicated IT staff, I intend to allow these users to view more granular details about their current network state while providing access to more advanced tools.  Such as a web-based console for direct interaction with a device and heart beating devices after a defined interval to check online status, triggering alert emails and warnings if a device fails to respond. In addition, larger companies may also have multiple sites which contain networking hardware. In the event of a remote outage I plan to implement an out of band management solution which will directly interface with the device to act as an intermediary; simulating a direct physical connection to a network device. \

In the current climate of high availability networks, where downtime is measured in seconds and overall service availability is expected to be 99% or above, I hope that by creating this solution and inspire confidence in less experienced users. Allowing them to keep their network healthy while also giving more experienced users access to the data they need to make informed decisions about changes to topologies and technologies. \  
